apps/docs/src/content/docs/components/field.mdx, before:

---
title: Field
description: Field component from @tuentyfaiv/svelte-form
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";
import {
  FieldText,
  FieldNumber,
  FieldCheckbox,
  FieldEmail,
  FieldPassword,
  FieldTel,
  FieldUrl,
  FieldSearch,
  FieldArea,
} from "@molecules";

You can use the `Field` component to render a form field. This component is for simple *text*, *number*, *email*, etc. fields. If you need to render a *select*, *checkbox*, *radio*, etc. you can use the [`Select`](/components/select), [`Option`](/components/option), [`File`](/components/file) , etc. components.

The `Field` component by default renders a text field. You can change the type of the field using the `type` prop.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Usage">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";
    </script>

    <Field name="name" label="Name:" />
    <!-- Or -->
    <Field name="name" label="Name:">
      This is a custom label
      <img src="/icon.svg" alt="hide/show" slot="icon" />
      <span slot="error" let:error>
        {formatError(error)}
      </span>
    </Field>
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Props">
    | Prop | Type | Default | Description |
    |------|------|---------|-------------|
    | name | `string` | - | The name of the field. |
    | label | `string \| undefined \| null` | `null` | The label of the field. |
    | type | `"text" \| "number" \| "checkbox" \| "email" \| "password" \| "tel" \| "url" \| "search" \| "textarea" \| undefined` | "text" | The type of the field. |
    | context | `string` | "form" | The context of the form. |
    | id | `string \| undefined \| null` | `null` | The id of the field. |
    | styles | [`FieldStyles`](/reference/#fieldstyles) | `{}` | The styles of the field. |
    | datas | `Record<string, string \| boolean \| number> \| undefined` | `{}` | Datasets of the field container. |
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Slots">
    | Slot | Prop | Description | Available to |
    |------|------|-------------| ------------|
    | default | - | Customize the label of the field. | all |
    | error | `{ error: string \| null }` | Show an error message. | all |
    | icon | - | Icon of the field action  | password |
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Events">
    > This component has no events.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Text

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldText />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        name: {
          type: "string",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="name" label="Name:" placeholder="Enter your name" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Number

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldNumber />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        age: {
          type: "number",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="age" label="Age:" placeholder="Enter your age" type="number" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Checkbox

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldCheckbox />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        terms: "boolean",
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="terms" label="I accept the terms and conditions" type="checkbox" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Email

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldEmail />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        email: "string",
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="email" label="Email:" placeholder="user@email.com" type="email" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Password

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldPassword />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        password: "string",
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="password" label="Password:" type="password" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Tel

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldTel />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        phone: "string",
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="phone" label="Phone:" placeholder="Enter your phone number" type="tel" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Url

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldUrl />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        website: {
          type: "string",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="website" label="Website:" placeholder="https://www.example.com" type="url" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Search

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldSearch />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        search: {
          type: "string",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="search" label="Search:" placeholder="What are you looking for?" type="search" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Textarea

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldArea />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        description: {
          type: "string",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="description" label="Description:" placeholder="Enter a description" type="textarea" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

🚧 REFACTOR: Add new icons, events and move styles to css file

apps/docs/src/content/docs/components/field.mdx, after:

---
title: Field
description: Field component from @tuentyfaiv/svelte-form
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";
import {
  FieldText,
  FieldNumber,
  FieldCheckbox,
  FieldEmail,
  FieldPassword,
  FieldTel,
  FieldUrl,
  FieldSearch,
  FieldArea,
} from "@molecules";

You can use the `Field` component to render a form field. This component is for simple *text*, *number*, *email*, etc. fields. If you need to render a *select*, *checkbox*, *radio*, etc. you can use the [`Select`](/components/select), [`Option`](/components/option), [`File`](/components/file) , etc. components.

The `Field` component by default renders a text field. You can change the type of the field using the `type` prop.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Usage">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";
    </script>

    <Field name="name" label="Name:" />
    <!-- Or -->
    <Field name="name" label="Name:">
      This is a custom label
      <img src="/icon.svg" alt="hide/show" slot="icon" />
      <span slot="error" let:error>
        {formatError(error)}
      </span>
    </Field>
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Props">
    | Prop | Type | Default | Description |
    |------|------|---------|-------------|
    | name | `string` | - | The name of the field. |
    | label | `string \| undefined \| null` | `null` | The label of the field. |
    | type | `"text" \| "number" \| "checkbox" \| "email" \| "password" \| "tel" \| "url" \| "search" \| "textarea" \| undefined` | "text" | The type of the field. |
    | context | `string` | "form" | The context of the form. |
    | id | `string \| undefined \| null` | `null` | The id of the field. |
    | styles | [`FieldStyles`](/reference/#fieldstyles) | `{}` | The styles of the field. |
    | clearOnDestroy | `boolean` | `false` | Clear the field value when the component is destroyed. |
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Slots">
    | Slot | Prop | Description | Available to |
    |------|------|-------------| ------------|
    | default | - | Customize the label of the field. | all |
    | error | `{ error: string \| null }` | Show an error message. | all |
    | icon | `{ show: boolean }` | Customize the icons of the field. | password |
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Events">
    | Name | Type | Description |
    |------|------|-------------|
    | input | `(event: InputEvent) => void` | Triggered when the field value changes. |
    | blur | `(event: FocusEvent) => void` | Triggered when the field loses focus. |
    | focus | `(event: FocusEvent) => void` | Triggered when the field gains focus. |
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Text

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldText />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        name: {
          type: "string",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="name" label="Name:" placeholder="Enter your name" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Number

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldNumber />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        age: {
          type: "number",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="age" label="Age:" placeholder="Enter your age" type="number" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Checkbox

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldCheckbox />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        terms: "boolean",
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="terms" label="I accept the terms and conditions" type="checkbox" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Email

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldEmail />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        email: "string",
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="email" label="Email:" placeholder="user@email.com" type="email" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Password

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldPassword />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        password: "string",
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="password" label="Password:" type="password" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Tel

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldTel />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        phone: "string",
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="phone" label="Phone:" placeholder="Enter your phone number" type="tel" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Url

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldUrl />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        website: {
          type: "string",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="website" label="Website:" placeholder="https://www.example.com" type="url" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Search

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldSearch />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        search: {
          type: "string",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="search" label="Search:" placeholder="What are you looking for?" type="search" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Textarea

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Example">
    <FieldArea />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Code">
    ```svelte
    <script lang="ts">
      import { faivform, Field } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      import type { FieldsSchema } from "@tuentyfaiv/svelte-form";

      const schema = {
        description: {
          type: "string",
          required: true,
        },
      } satisfies FieldsSchema;

      faivform({ fields: schema });
    </script>

    <Field name="description" label="Description:" placeholder="Enter a description" type="textarea" />
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
